# mqtt-jsonsplit

**mqtt-jsonsplit** is a simple Python script that listens to JSON messages on a
MQTT topic. It will then recursively split JSON objects and arrays into their
components and republish them under a subtopic. For example, if mqttsplit
receives the following message on `test`:

    {"foo": {"bar": "baz"}, "colors": ["red", "green", "blue"]}

It will publish the following messages (in order):

    test/foo          {"bar":"baz"}
    test/foo/bar      "baz"
    test/colors       ["red","green","blue"]
    test/colors/0     "red"
    test/colors/1     "green"
    test/colors/2     "blue"

This is useful with programs like [Telegraf][] that spit out hierarchical JSON
data. It allows you to subscribe to only the subset of the message that
interests you.

mqttsplit silently ignores messages that are invalid JSON. Wildcards are
allowed, but be careful with `#`: you probably don't want mqttsplit to split
its own output.

## Usage

    usage: mqttsplit [-h HOST] [-u USER] [-P PASS] [-k SECONDS] [-p PORT] [--ssl]
                     [--debug] [--help] [-v]
                     TOPIC [TOPIC ...]
    
    positional arguments:
      TOPIC                 topics to subscribe to
    
    optional arguments:
      -h HOST, --host HOST
      -u USER, --username USER
      -P PASS, --password PASS
      -k SECONDS, --keepalive-time SECONDS
      -p PORT, --port PORT
      --ssl
      --debug
      --help
      -v, --version         show program's version number and exit

## License

    Copyright (c) 2016, 2017 Wander Nauta
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
    SOFTWARE.


[Telegraf]: https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf
